# De-identifying Data

This project is a simple example of how to transform data while copying it from one MarkLogic database to another, using MarkLogic's [mlcp](http://developer.marklogic.com/products/mlcp).

## Motivation
The particular impetus for this project was working with a partner who had the following constraints:
- had a set of data in a production database
- needed to copy the data for developer use
- the developers were not allowed to see all of the data, due to privacy concerns

We decided that a reasonable strategy would be to execute a de-identifying transformation while copying the data from one database to another. Using a second database was helpful, because it physically separated the original data from the cleansed version. (Another approach would be having both in the same database but in different collections. Either is valid; the choice is more about security standards than anything else.)

Once the cleansed data were in the second database and had been verified, it could be exported for use on the develper systems.

## Sample Data
This repository has some sample data in the data directory. The documents are exported cache finds from [Geocaching](http://geocaching.com).

## Roxy
This project uses the Roxy deployer to establish an environment for using the transformation function. [Roxy](https://github.com/marklogic/roxy) is a project on GitHub; you can learn more about it [on the tutorials page](https://github.com/marklogic/roxy/wiki/Tutorials).

## MarkLogic Content Pump
MLCP is a tool built by MarkLogic to ease moving data into, out of, and across MarkLogic databases. It allows the user to specify transformation functions on import and copy, though not yet on export (as of ML 7.0-1 / mlcp 1.1-1).

The mlcp.copy file is an options file for mlcp. Note that the options are hard-coded; you'll need to modify them for your environment (Roxy can do this for you with some other tools, but hasn't yet been integrated with mlcp).

## de-identify.xqy
src/lib/de-identify.xqy is the heart of this project. It is intended as a starting point for someone who wants to do a transform-on-copy using MarkLogic. Everything else in this repo is a test bed to execute the functions in de-identify.xqy.
